Promises are a new feature in JavaScript.
As of E6 but that means they're really useful to have them introduce as part of the language.
Right.
Well you're absolutely right.
Promises are everywhere.
And in this video I'm going to show you what they are how they work and hopefully you'll understand
why we should all be jumping for joy that we have them instead of callbacks.
Now in order to understand promises let's define it a promise is an object that may produce a single
value sometime in the future either a result value or reason that it's not a result or rejected a promise
maybe in one of three possible States fulfilled rejected or pending.
Huh.
Let's figure out what that means.
In this video so that by the end of it that is all going to make sense to you.
Now in order to fully grasp the concept must first talk about what we had before promises and that is
callbacks something like this when something is done.
Execute this piece of code callbacks in JavaScript are exactly that.
I text my friend Bob and say Hey Bob what's there really good song by the Backstreet Boys when Bob has
time.
He called me back and says Oh yeah.
That song.
It's I want it that way.
And that's exactly what's happening here too.
We have an element that we're adding an event listener to and when a user clicks we're going to have
the callback submit form that is once the user clicks we're going to answer with submit form the song
of another example let's say we're creating a game and we had this move player function that has the
distance to move the player and that direction.
Well if I wanted to move player a hundred to the left I'd run that.
Once that is done I wanted to run a callback function which is to move player 400 to the left again
and then another callback function right after that is done to move.
Player 10 to the right and another pull back function to move Player 3 30 to the left and we have something
called the pyramid of dew.
This is obviously a simple example but with callbacks you'll get this nested nested function and you
create this pyramid of really really complicated code.
This happens then this happens then this happens then this happens and it's really really hard to read.
Let me show you a more realistic example
let's say we had some sort of an app that uses Twitter and we make this bigger so you can see we have
a graph tweets function that the first parameter as the you are L.
For now I just simplified it.
We just passed Twitter and the Twitter handle and then the callback function.
After you grab the tweets which has an error and the tweets and if there's an error we throw an error
so that just creates an error in JavaScript.
Otherwise we're gonna display the tweets but then if Andre's tweets were successful then we also want
to grab the tweets again.
Let's do Elon Musk this time and again if they're we're gonna throw air.
Otherwise we're gonna display his tweets.
And if that's successful then we're also gonna grab metallic beta and streets and again if they're through
error otherwise display tweets.
And that doesn't look very pretty.
Does it.
I mean we have to do the same thing we have to check for air at each time we have it nested and just
overall we have a lot of repetition of code now promises serve the same purpose as callbacks.
So why do we have two things.
What promises are new in the S6 and they're a little bit more powerful.
Let me show you what a promise looks like.
You remember this move.
Player code.
Well this with a promise will look something.
Like this.
Doesn't that look much much better but it's really hard to grasp what's happening here without really
knowing how to create a promise.
So let's start with that.
I'm going to remove this and create our very first promise we'll say const promise equals.
And this is a new syntax that you'll just have to get used to.
New Promise.
So we're creating a new promise and this promise has parameter that either resolves or rejects.
And in here in this function we have the option to just say either resolve and let's just do stuff worked
or reject.
And in this case we have an error.
It broke.
Now we obviously want to have a conditional statement here we'll say if condition in our case we'll
just let it be true for now.
If true So this is if the promise returned.
We're going to resolve it otherwise we're going to reject
and here's the thing this looks confusing without actually knowing the application.
But I want you to just have this over here so you can take a look at it as we progressed through this
video is gonna make more and more sense.
So now that we have a promise if I put this into my console my chrome browser.
All right I have the promise now.
But how can we get this promise to run now.
Well I can just do promise.
Dot then.
So again once the promises resolved or rejected dot then I want to get the results.
And then we want to console DOT Blog.
The result.
That's it.
So let's see what happens here.
I'm going to copy this paste it on here stuff worked.
All right.
So we ran the promise.
It ran.
This part and because we've just made if equals the true.
That's going to run their resolve.
And the result is going to send stuff worked into the result and we're going to console log stopped
work.
And you also see over here that the promise is resolved again.
If I just log promise here I see that we have the promise with stuffed worked.
Awesome.
OK.
So based on what we know now let's just take a look at what we can do with promises.
Let's say that now with stuffed worked I want to grab the result
and add an exclamation mark to it and then and this is called chaining and promises.
Then after I do that it's going to return this return the result with the exclamation mark.
And in our case I just want to get the result too.
And we will just console dot log result to all right.
Well let's see what happens now.
So I have my promise just to make sure that we have it here.
Perfect and we're going to run the promise stuff for it with the exclamation mark very cool but what
happens if something happens in between here we just have a console lock on it let's say we have an
error and that error causes us to throw an error but what happens now with promises you can actually
do something called Dot catch and this will catch any error that the promise may have.
In our case we just want to console dog log.
And now if I run this
we console log the error let's just make this a little bit cleaner so that you can see exactly what
is happening
Erica.
So again copy and paste.
Now you know we get the error if the throw error happens before.
Let's say it happens
above
and we want to return this
well if I move the throw air at the top over here save and again.
Copy paste let's clean this up a bit and see that we still get the error.
So dot catch catches any errors that may happen between the chains dot that which is very very cool.
All right.
So I have a little question for you.
What happens if we do something along this line.
Let me just go back to what we had before.
We don't have an area anymore but this time we have the result to plus the question mark so we're going
to add a question mark to that.
We're going to return that.
We're going to catch with console dialogue there.
And after that we're going to have a dot then result three and that result three will have resolved
three
let's do another exclamation mark.
And we want to console log this.
So again whoops run to console dialogue from this.
All right.
What do you think is gonna happen.
Let's see we save copy paste and look at that.
We have stuffed worked or stuff worked.
Exclamation question mark exclamation so catch only runs if something fails.
In between here.
But because I placed it before this if this fails
well I don't get the error console.
I get an error within our console because we did throw an error.
But the catch statement never runs.
So where you put the catch statement is it's going to check and run if anything before it fails.
All right.
Awesome.
So that's how we create a promise a promise has a resolve and a reject.
And so far it's only been resolved.
It's just worked out.
We've never run the reject.
We'll do that later on.
But we see that with a promise began.
Give it to a variable and run this and do something with it asynchronously.
When we run dot then and get the result and do whatever you want with it we can keep changing it and
we can also catch our errors.
A promise is something that you have now that you can use around your code even though you don't have
the value just yet.
You can just assign it to a variable like we did here to a concert promise.
Now when would this be a good thing.
Well promises are great for asynchronous programming.
If you don't remember what that is.
Make sure you check out my video and how javascript works to grasp the concept when you don't want javascript
to block the execution of your code like making API calls grabbing data from a database or maybe optimizing
an image.
You use a promise so that the task happens in the background when the promise gets resolved or reject.
Then you'll get that response.
Now let's show you something else that promises can do that makes them really really powerful.
Let's say that within a year we had another promise a concert promise too.
And this promise again has a resolve reject
now we can make this a little bit smaller and this resolve project is going to have a set time out.
So set time out is a web API it allows us to time out and run something after a few seconds so set time
out.
We're going to say resolve in 100 seconds or 100 milliseconds.
The high text
OK.
Don't worry too much about the syntax.
Essentially this is saying run this and return resolve high in 100 millisecond.
Let's also have another promise let's say promise three and this one resolves.
And one second.
And the sun's going to say Pookie.
And then finally a fourth promise and this fourth promise is going to resolve.
And three seconds.
And it's going to say is it me your looking for
right.
So we have these promises.
Well again a feature that we have is something called Promise Dot.
Oh and promise that all takes an array of promises.
In our case promise one promise to promise three and analysts to promise for.
That's a lot of promises.
And in here we can do a dog then.
And the values will be returned as an array in the order that they were just written down.
And here we can just console dialogue values what's safe.
And I'm going to copy this into our console actually which just copy and paste all of these wash the
bottom of the screen here as I press enter one two three four five.
And we have our result five seconds later.
You see here that even though these ones took a lot less well because we did promise that all it waited
until all the promises were resolved and then logged out the values very equal.
And by the way the reason that if I do this where I assign the variables first and then run promise
that all the result is instant and that is because we've already run these promises right we've assigned
it to a variable.
And between the time that we copied and pasted this in here these promises in the background have been
resolved.
Right let's finish up with the final example that has some real world applications so that you have
an idea of when we want to use promises
to delete this refresh.
Now I have here a list of your URLs and these your URLs are from a simple API.
Let me show you
called Jason Place holder.
And they just give us some points that we can use such as users like return us some Jason data.
So I have users posts and albums here and this is very similar to something you do on a Web site where
you want to grab some information maybe from your server from the database with users posts and albums
and let's say that they're all important to us for the page for the profile page of the user.
How can we grab them all.
Well again using promises we can just do promise to Paul and we can just grab the URLs.
And in this case we can just map over this.
So it's an array
and with each year all that we grab we want to we want to fetch again a web API to grab that you or
else make an ajax call to the U.R.L. dog.
Then we want to run the response through the response that Jason again that just comes with fetch.
They need to do
and then from here we can do a dog then.
And this is going to return us remember an array because we're getting a promise of all these fetches
it's going to return results.
These results.
Well for now let's just console that log them and we'll do results.
The first one
the second one and the third one.
Let's see if that works.
I'm going to copy all of these.
Let's go back to our page.
Copy and paste our code waiting a bit and there you go.
There's our response.
We see that we got undefined here because I put three here instead of two plus two that we copy and
paste this again going to refresh the page and there you go.
We have our users we have our posts and then we also have our albums.
Very cool let's say that something fails here.
Maybe we misspell one of the you or else.
So the user's API won't work.
Let's add a dot catch 10 console dialog
header if I copy and paste this refresh and again run this through the console.
Look at that we get an error with promise that all if everything fails because we need users posts and
albums for our entire page on our Web site we get a Bridget from the promise and we can catch it and
we can do whatever we want with this error.
Very cool.
All right so let's fix that.
So it's working again.
And there you go.
That's why promises are so beneficial.
We're able to do something like this in a very clean way.
Remember the fetch simply returns a promise if I just run fetch here.
You see that I get a promise that's pending.
And by adding a dog then we are answering to whatever the promise returns with whether it's result or
rejects and we get to manipulate the data.
So at their most basic promises are a bit like event listeners accept a promise can only succeed or
fail once.
It cannot succeed or fail twice.
And this is extremely useful for things that are asynchronous.
Success and failure such as API calls because we're less interested in the exact time something became
available and more interested in reacting to the outcome.
So we're reacting to something that happens asynchronously.
So again let's remember what we started with a promise is an object that may produce a single value
sometime in the future either resolved or rejected with a reason why it was rejected and a promise may
maybe in one of three possible states.
It can be fulfilled rejected or pending.
See that wasn't so bad was it.
Now go off and practice its promises and see all their power.
I'll see in the next one by.